- [Instructor] If we would like to sort a collection
using something besides its element's natural order,
we can define our own comparator.
So, let's imagine that we wanted to compare our rooms
using their daily rate.
To do this, we can build a comparator
that overrides the natural order of the room.
This comparison might be something that we use frequently,
so I'm going to create the comparator as a static field
inside of the room class.
So I'll declare the field with a type of comparator,
and then you'll recall that comparators are a generic type,
so I'll specify room as its generic type.
I'm going to name this the RATE_COMPARATOR,
and then we can begin to create our comparator.
To do that, I'm going to use the static methods
found on the comparator that were added in Java 8.
The first is the comparing method.
This allows us to provide a field on the room
that we would like to use for our comparison.
So, in this case, I'm going to pass a method reference
to the getRate field,
so the rate will be used as the sort key.
Okay, let's go ahead and we'll save this.
And then we can navigate over to our application.
Now, you'll notice that we have a list of rooms
currently in this application.
And if we execute the code,
they're being sorted in their natural order.
So, Cambridge, Oxford, then the other Oxford room,
Piccadilly, and Victoria.
Now, watch what happens when we shift this code over
to use the new comparator that we built.
So I'll pass the comparator
into the sort method on the list.
And then I'll go ahead and execute it.
Now, we're sorting in ascending order
by the room's daily rate.
Now, within this output,
you'll notice that we have three rooms
that have the same rate.
Let's add a secondary sort to our comparator.
So I'm going to return to our room class,
and then within the class, we can chain a call
to the thenComparing method
and add another method reference to our secondary sort key.
So, I'm just going to use the room name.
Let me go ahead and provide that method reference.
Then we can return to our application,
and we can execute our code.
Now you'll notice the rooms are sorted,
first by their rate and then by their name.
So Victoria is last,
but then we still have this conflict with Oxford.
So we can head back over to the room class,
and chain another call to build a third sort key
into our comparator.
So I'll just invoke thenComparing once again,
and this time I'm going to use the type
to break the tie in the sort.
Now, back in the application class,
before I execute this code,
I'm going to invoke another method
that's found on the comparator.
And that's the reversed method,
and this just reverses the order
in which we sort the elements.
So in this case, we're going to get the rates
in descending order, and then we will get the name
in reverse alphabetical order,
followed by the type in reverse alphabetical order.
Okay, let's go ahead and check that out.
And you notice that we're now ordering
in a descending order by the rate.
Then we see the names in descending order,
and then the types in descending order.
In the past two lessons, you may have noticed a pattern.
The collections framework provides us
with methods for sorting,
but they're all designed to rely upon logic
that is external to the framework.
So when you define that logic, make sure it's reusable,
through either a comparable implementation
for natural sort order,
or a comparator that is used globally throughout your code.
Then, you won't repeat yourself
all throughout your code base.